README.md, before:

# Rireki [![Github Actions Status](https://github.com/noeldemartin/rireki/workflows/Testing/badge.svg)](https://github.com/noeldemartin/rireki/actions)

CLI backup tool.

## Installation

Install the rireki cli running the following command:

```sh
pip install rireki
```

You need to call `rireki backup` in order for backups to be performed. For example, you could use the following crontab configuration to perform backup checks every hour (remember to create the `/var/log/rireki` directory as well):

```sh
0 * * * * rireki backup >> /var/log/rireki/cron.log 2>> /var/log/rireki/cron-error.log
```

## Usage

Get detailed information running `rireki --help`.

There are three core concepts on how rireki manages backups:

- **Projects:** A project is something you want to back up. For example a website database or a collection of files.

- **Drivers:** A driver is the program used to create the backup files. For example zipping up a folder or dumping a database.

- **Stores:** A store is the program used to save the backup files created with a driver. For example copying them to a local folder or uploading them to a 3rd party service.

In order to install a new project to backup, a configuration file can be added to `~/.rireki/projects/{project-name}.conf`. This will be a [toml](https://github.com/toml-lang/toml) configuration file. It can either be created manually or calling `rireki add {project-name}`.

### Drivers

#### Files

This driver creates an archive with files copied from the local filesystem. The archive will be a zip file if possible or a tar file.

It needs the following configuration:

| property      | type          | description  |
| ------------- |---------------| -------------|
| name          | `"files"`     | The name of the driver. |
| frequency     | `integer`     | The frequency in seconds at which new backups should be made. |
| paths         | `string[]`    | Folders or files that will be included in the archive. |

#### Custom

This driver can be used if backing up a project is not supported by any of the other drivers. It consists of a custom script that will be called to generate the backup artifacts. The backup files should be placed on a path indicated by the `RIREKI_BACKUP_PATH` env variable.

Once the script has completed, a file named `logs.json` will also be placed on the path with the standard output and standard error printed by the script.

It needs the following configuration:

| property      | type          | description  |
| ------------- |---------------| -------------|
| name          | `"custom"`    | The name of the driver. |
| frequency     | `integer`     | The frequency in seconds at which new backups should be made. |
| command       | `string`      | Command to call in order to perform backups. |
| timeout       | `integer`     | Number of seconds where the command will be timed out and the backup will fail. |

### Stores

#### Local

This store copies the backups to a folder in the same filesystem.

It needs the following configuration:

| property      | type          | description  |
| ------------- |---------------| -------------|
| name          | `"local"`     | The name of the store. |
| path          | `string`      | The path of the folder where the backups will be copied. |

#### Amazon Web Services

This store uploads the backups to an AWS S3 instance.

It needs the following configuration:

| property      | type          | description  |
| ------------- |---------------| -------------|
| name          | `"aws"`     | The name of the store. |
| region        | `string`      | The region where the S3 instance is located. |
| access_key    | `string`      | The access key ID. |
| access_secret | `string`      | The secret access key. |
| bucket        | `string`      | The name of the bucket where the files will be uploaded. |
| path          | `string`      | The path within the bucket where the files will be placed. |

#### Digital Ocean

This store uploads the backups to a Digital Ocean Spaces instance.

It uses the same configuration as the AWS store, with the only exception that the name is `"digital-ocean"` instead.

### An example config file

For example, to backup a project named "Foobar" using the `files` driver and the `local` store we would create the following file at `~/.rireki/projects/foobar.conf`:

```toml
name="foobar"

[driver]
name="files"
paths=["/path/to/data/folder"]
frequency=1440

[store]
name="local"
path="/path/to/backups/folder"
```

As mentioned before, you could call `rireki add foobar` to create this file.

## Development

Run tests with `pytest` and lint your code with `flake8` (see the [Github Actions configuration](.github/workflows/testing.yml) for more details).

Commit message:

Add note to README about configuring cron tasks

README.md, after:

# Rireki [![Github Actions Status](https://github.com/noeldemartin/rireki/workflows/Testing/badge.svg)](https://github.com/noeldemartin/rireki/actions)

CLI backup tool.

## Installation

Install the rireki cli running the following command:

```sh
pip install rireki
```

You need to call `rireki backup` in order for backups to be performed. For example, you could use the following crontab configuration to perform backup checks every hour (remember to create the `/var/log/rireki` directory as well):

```sh
0 * * * * rireki backup >> /var/log/rireki/cron.log 2>> /var/log/rireki/cron-error.log
```

**Note:** Make sure that the crontab can execute the `rireki` command. That will depend on how you installed the package and which crontab you configure. Also keep in mind that by default the command will read the projects from the home folder of the current user. This can be overriden by setting the `RIREKI_HOME` environment variable.

## Usage

Get detailed information running `rireki --help`.

There are three core concepts on how rireki manages backups:

- **Projects:** A project is something you want to back up. For example a website database or a collection of files.

- **Drivers:** A driver is the program used to create the backup files. For example zipping up a folder or dumping a database.

- **Stores:** A store is the program used to save the backup files created with a driver. For example copying them to a local folder or uploading them to a 3rd party service.

In order to install a new project to backup, a configuration file can be added to `~/.rireki/projects/{project-name}.conf`. This will be a [toml](https://github.com/toml-lang/toml) configuration file. It can either be created manually or calling `rireki add {project-name}`.

### Drivers

#### Files

This driver creates an archive with files copied from the local filesystem. The archive will be a zip file if possible or a tar file.

It needs the following configuration:

| property      | type          | description  |
| ------------- |---------------| -------------|
| name          | `"files"`     | The name of the driver. |
| frequency     | `integer`     | The frequency in seconds at which new backups should be made. |
| paths         | `string[]`    | Folders or files that will be included in the archive. |

#### Custom

This driver can be used if backing up a project is not supported by any of the other drivers. It consists of a custom script that will be called to generate the backup artifacts. The backup files should be placed on a path indicated by the `RIREKI_BACKUP_PATH` env variable.

Once the script has completed, a file named `logs.json` will also be placed on the path with the standard output and standard error printed by the script.

It needs the following configuration:

| property      | type          | description  |
| ------------- |---------------| -------------|
| name          | `"custom"`    | The name of the driver. |
| frequency     | `integer`     | The frequency in seconds at which new backups should be made. |
| command       | `string`      | Command to call in order to perform backups. |
| timeout       | `integer`     | Number of seconds where the command will be timed out and the backup will fail. |

### Stores

#### Local

This store copies the backups to a folder in the same filesystem.

It needs the following configuration:

| property      | type          | description  |
| ------------- |---------------| -------------|
| name          | `"local"`     | The name of the store. |
| path          | `string`      | The path of the folder where the backups will be copied. |

#### Amazon Web Services

This store uploads the backups to an AWS S3 instance.

It needs the following configuration:

| property      | type          | description  |
| ------------- |---------------| -------------|
| name          | `"aws"`     | The name of the store. |
| region        | `string`      | The region where the S3 instance is located. |
| access_key    | `string`      | The access key ID. |
| access_secret | `string`      | The secret access key. |
| bucket        | `string`      | The name of the bucket where the files will be uploaded. |
| path          | `string`      | The path within the bucket where the files will be placed. |

#### Digital Ocean

This store uploads the backups to a Digital Ocean Spaces instance.

It uses the same configuration as the AWS store, with the only exception that the name is `"digital-ocean"` instead.

### An example config file

For example, to backup a project named "Foobar" using the `files` driver and the `local` store we would create the following file at `~/.rireki/projects/foobar.conf`:

```toml
name="foobar"

[driver]
name="files"
paths=["/path/to/data/folder"]
frequency=1440

[store]
name="local"
path="/path/to/backups/folder"
```

As mentioned before, you could call `rireki add foobar` to create this file.

## Development

Run tests with `pytest` and lint your code with `flake8` (see the [Github Actions configuration](.github/workflows/testing.yml) for more details).
